Object Oriented Programming (OOP): 

Object oriented programming is a programming style which is associated with the concept of class and objects. There are four pillars of OOP: abstraction, encapsulation, inheritance, and polymorphism.
Objects are central to understanding OOP. A software object is similar to objects in real life in that they consist of state and related behavior. An object’s state (data) gets stored in fields (variable in some programming language) and exposes behavior (code) through methods (can be functions). States of object are the instances inside of the object that contains the data.
Object to object communication is primarily done by those methods operating on an object’s internal state. Hiding the internal state and mandating that all interaction is done via an object’s methods is called data encapsulation. Data encapsulation is one of the key nuggets of POOP and aids in the division of programs into smaller pieces (much like your bowels do before you make a deposit) and make each piece responsible for managing their own state.  
Class is the design or type of any entity which defines the core properties and functions. Inheritance: enables new classes to receive the properties and methods of existing classes.
For example, poop can be a class with its own properties and functions. Poop can come in a wide range of shapes, colors, and smells. There’s even a chart that rates your sharts. Let’s take Type 4 on the Bristol stool chart: “Like a sausage, smooth and soft”. It inherits much of the same common features as poop itself. Abstraction: roughly means showcasing the required things to the outside world while hiding the details. Encapsulation: the binding of properties with functions in a class. In most programming languages, private variables in class can be declared which cannot be accessed outside the class. Public functions are defined for these private variables  in the class to enable the outside to access the variables. This private-public accord is known as data-hiding. Polymorphism: just like it sounds, it allows for more than one way to do something. It allows us to redefine the way something works by either using a different process for it or by changing the parts that are used for the process. Polymorphism has overriding and overloading. In overloading, the arguments are changed: either the number of them or the type of them. Overriding is when you change the mechanism of function. Constructor functions are special methods of a class or structure that initializes an object of that type. Its an instance method that typically uses the same name as the class and can be used to set the values of the members to default or user-defined  in an object. An instance is a specific realization of any object and is in memory--a single and unique unit of a class.

Some applications of OOP are real-time system design (they inherit complexities that make it difficult to build them so OOP makes it easier to handle them), hypertext and hypermedia, office automation systems (e.g. email, word processing, web çalendars), and AI expert systems. 

